= HowTo compile the vtk-grass-bridge =

== Introduction ==

The vtk-grass-bridge use the cmake make system and depends on several libraries. The two main libraries are VTK and grass7. Additionally gdal and proj4 libaries should be present. 

The vtk-grass-bridge works with VTK version 5.2, 5.4, 5.6 and the latest development version 5.9. I strongly recommend to use only the stable versions. Some Linux distributions provide a stable VTK version as package.

Two optional features of the vtk-grass-bridge depend on VTK 5.9:
  * Temporal pipeline support
  * R-VTK interface

Please do not use these optional features, they are in an experimental state and disabled by default..

Use always the latest grass7 svn version. The gdal and proj4 libraries should be available on your system via the package manager.

== Install CMake ==

You need cmake to configure the vtk-grass.bridge as well as VTK itself.
Use your package manager or download the latest version here: 

http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html

Compile and install cmake. On unix a simple 
{{{
configure --qt-gui && make && make install
}}}
should do the job.

== Compile GRASS GIS 7 ==

Download the latest grass7 svn version via svn from the osgeo server. You can use this script to do the job (pleas edit to your neededs):
{{{
#!/bin/sh
svn checkout https://svn.osgeo.org/grass/grass/trunk grass_trunk
cd grass_trunk
make distclean
export CFLAGS="-ggdb -Wall -Werror-implicit-function-declaration -fno-common -fopenmp"
export LDFLAGS="-lgomp"
./configure  --without-freetype --with-wxwidgets --with-sqlite --with-postgresql --with-cxx --with-python && make -j12
}}}

You don't need to install GRASS, the build directory contains a full functional grass installation.

== Install/Compile VTK ==

Use your package manager and install VTK. Python support should be enabled to run the vtk-grass-bridge tests. Optional Java support can be enabled to run the Java vtk-grass-bridge modules and to use it in your own java modules.

If no VTK package is available you need to compile VTK. Download the latests stable version here:
http://www.vtk.org/VTK/resources/software.html

Use cmake-gui to configure VTK. Enable Python and Java support. After configuration type {{{make && make install}}} to install VTK on your system. The default installation path is {{{/usr/local/lib/vtk-5.6}}} in case of VTK 5.6.

== Compile/Install vtk-grass-bridge ==  